## 14. 核心安全过滤器

有一些键值过滤器，它们总会被使用了Spring Security的web应用程序所使用，所以我们得先看看它们和它们支持的类与接口。我们不会说明每一个功能，所以如果你想要得到完整的信息，那么就去看看它们的Javadoc。

### 14.1 FilterSecurityInterceptor

我们已经在介绍`access-control`时简短的介绍了一下`FilterSecurityInterceptor`，并且我们已经在使用了命名空间的<intercept-url>元素时将其绑定到了配置之中。现在，我们会看看如何明确地通过`FilterChainProxy`来配置它，伴随着它的小伙伴过滤器`ExceptionTranslationFilter`一起。典型的配置如下：

	<bean id="filterSecurityInterceptor"
		class="org.springframework.security.web.access.intercept.FilterSecurityInterceptor">
	<property name="authenticationManager" ref="authenticationManager"/>
	<property name="accessDecisionManager" ref="accessDecisionManager"/>
	<property name="securityMetadataSource">
		<security:filter-security-metadata-source>
		<security:intercept-url pattern="/secure/super/**" access="ROLE_WE_DONT_HAVE"/>
		<security:intercept-url pattern="/secure/**" access="ROLE_SUPERVISOR,ROLE_TELLER"/>
		</security:filter-security-metadata-source>
	</property>
	</bean>

`FilterSecurityInterceptor`负责HTTP资源的安全操作。它需要一个对`AuthenticationManager`和一个对`AccessDecisionManager`的引用。它也提供属性配置，从而可以应用到不同的HTTP URL请求。参考一下本教程《技术简介》一章最初的讨论。

`FilterSecurityInterceptor`可以用两种方法在配置属性中配置。第一种就像上面那样，使用`<filter-security-metadata-source>`命名空间元素。它和《命名空间》一节中的`<http>`元素很相似，但其中的`<intercept-url>`子元素只使用pattern和access属性。逗号用于为用于每个HTTP URL的不同的配置属性进行区分。第二种方式是写一个你自己的`SecurityMetadataSource`，但它超出了此文档的范围。不论方法如何，`SecurityMetadataSource`负责返回一个包含了所有的配置属性的`List<ConfigAttribute>`，它们与一个简单安全的HTTP相关。

你应当注意：`FilterSecurityInterceptor.setSecurityMetadataSource()`方法期望一个`FilterInvocationSecurityMetadataSource`实例。它是一个制造器接口，并且`SecurityMetadataSource`是它的子类。它简单地表示`SecurityMetadataSource`理解`FilterInvocation`s。在这个简单的兴趣中，我们继续像`SecurityMetadataSource`一样参考`FilterInvocationSecurityMetadataSource`，二者的在与大部分用户的关系上有一点小区别。

`SecurityMetadataSource`由命名空间语法创建，它获取一个特殊的`FilterInvocation`，获取方式是通过配置的pattern属性来匹配请求的URL。这与在命名空间配置的方式在行为上是一样的。默认将所有的表达式看作是Apache Ant路径，在更复杂的情况下也支持正则表达式。`request-matcher`属性用于指定pattern的类型。不能用同样的定义最小化表达式语法。例如，可以用正则表达式来代替之前的Ant路径的配置：

	<bean id="filterInvocationInterceptor"
		class="org.springframework.security.web.access.intercept.FilterSecurityInterceptor">
	<property name="authenticationManager" ref="authenticationManager"/>
	<property name="accessDecisionManager" ref="accessDecisionManager"/>
	<property name="runAsManager" ref="runAsManager"/>
	<property name="securityMetadataSource">
		<security:filter-security-metadata-source request-matcher="regex">
		<security:intercept-url pattern="\A/secure/super/.*\Z" access="ROLE_WE_DONT_HAVE"/>
		<security:intercept-url pattern="\A/secure/.*\" access="ROLE_SUPERVISOR,ROLE_TELLER"/>
		</security:filter-security-metadata-source>
	</property>
	</bean>

Patterns一直都会被按它们被定义的顺序进行判定。因此在列表中把更特殊的patterns定义在没那么特殊的patterns的上方非常重要。你可以在上面的例子中看到这一点，更特殊的 /secure/super pattern放在没那么特殊的 /secure/ pattern的上面。如果它们被颠倒，那么 /secure/ pattern将会一直被匹配，并且你永远也没办法进入 /secure/super/ pattern。

### 14.2 ExceptionTranslationFilter

`ExceptionTranslationFilter`在安全过滤器栈中位于`FilterSecurityInterceptor`之上。它自己不会做任何实际的安全操作，但它会捕获安全拦截器中的异常，并提供一个适当的HTTP响应。

	<bean id="exceptionTranslationFilter"
	class="org.springframework.security.web.access.ExceptionTranslationFilter">
	<property name="authenticationEntryPoint" ref="authenticationEntryPoint"/>
	<property name="accessDeniedHandler" ref="accessDeniedHandler"/>
	</bean>
	
	<bean id="authenticationEntryPoint"
	class="org.springframework.security.web.authentication.LoginUrlAuthenticationEntryPoint">
	<property name="loginFormUrl" value="/login.jsp"/>
	</bean>
	
	<bean id="accessDeniedHandler"
		class="org.springframework.security.web.access.AccessDeniedHandlerImpl">
	<property name="errorPage" value="/accessDenied.htm"/>
	</bean>

#### 14.2.1 AuthenticationEntryPoint

如果用户请求一个被保护的HTPP资源，但此时他们没有被认证，那么`AuthenticationEntryPoint`会被调用。一个恰当的`AuthenticationException`或者`AccessDeniedException`会被一个安全拦截器从调用栈中抛出，从而触发入口的开始方法。

The AuthenticationEntryPoint will be called if the user requests a secure HTTP resource but they are not authenticated. An appropriate AuthenticationException or AccessDeniedException will be thrown by a security interceptor further down the call stack, triggering the commence method on the entry point. This does the job of presenting the appropriate response to the user so that authentication can begin. The one we’ve used here is LoginUrlAuthenticationEntryPoint, which redirects the request to a different URL (typically a login page). The actual implementation used will depend on the authentication mechanism you want to be used in your application.
14.2.2 AccessDeniedHandler

What happens if a user is already authenticated and they try to access a protected resource? In normal usage, this shouldn’t happen because the application workflow should be restricted to operations to which a user has access. For example, an HTML link to an administration page might be hidden from users who do not have an admin role. You can’t rely on hiding links for security though, as there’s always a possibility that a user will just enter the URL directly in an attempt to bypass the restrictions. Or they might modify a RESTful URL to change some of the argument values. Your application must be protected against these scenarios or it will definitely be insecure. You will typically use simple web layer security to apply constraints to basic URLs and use more specific method-based security on your service layer interfaces to really nail down what is permissible.

If an AccessDeniedException is thrown and a user has already been authenticated, then this means that an operation has been attempted for which they don’t have enough permissions. In this case, ExceptionTranslationFilter will invoke a second strategy, the AccessDeniedHandler. By default, an AccessDeniedHandlerImpl is used, which just sends a 403 (Forbidden) response to the client. Alternatively you can configure an instance explicitly (as in the above example) and set an error page URL which it will forwards the request to [11]. This can be a simple "access denied" page, such as a JSP, or it could be a more complex handler such as an MVC controller. And of course, you can implement the interface yourself and use your own implementation.

It’s also possible to supply a custom AccessDeniedHandler when you’re using the namespace to configure your application. See the namespace appendix for more details.
14.2.3 SavedRequest s and the RequestCache Interface

Another responsibility of ExceptionTranslationFilter responsibilities is to save the current request before invoking the AuthenticationEntryPoint. This allows the request to be restored after the use has authenticated (see previous overview of web authentication). A typical example would be where the user logs in with a form, and is then redirected to the original URL by the default SavedRequestAwareAuthenticationSuccessHandler (see below).

The RequestCache encapsulates the functionality required for storing and retrieving HttpServletRequest instances. By default the HttpSessionRequestCache is used, which stores the request in the HttpSession. The RequestCacheFilter has the job of actually restoring the saved request from the cache when the user is redirected to the original URL.

Under normal circumstances, you shouldn’t need to modify any of this functionality, but the saved-request handling is a "best-effort" approach and there may be situations which the default configuration isn’t able to handle. The use of these interfaces makes it fully pluggable from Spring Security 3.0 onwards.
14.3 SecurityContextPersistenceFilter

We covered the purpose of this all-important filter in the Technical Overview chapter so you might want to re-read that section at this point. Let’s first take a look at how you would configure it for use with a FilterChainProxy. A basic configuration only requires the bean itself
<bean id="securityContextPersistenceFilter"
class="org.springframework.security.web.context.SecurityContextPersistenceFilter"/>

As we saw previously, this filter has two main tasks. It is responsible for storage of the SecurityContext contents between HTTP requests and for clearing the SecurityContextHolder when a request is completed. Clearing the ThreadLocal in which the context is stored is essential, as it might otherwise be possible for a thread to be replaced into the servlet container’s thread pool, with the security context for a particular user still attached. This thread might then be used at a later stage, performing operations with the wrong credentials.
14.3.1 SecurityContextRepository

From Spring Security 3.0, the job of loading and storing the security context is now delegated to a separate strategy interface:
public interface SecurityContextRepository {

SecurityContext loadContext(HttpRequestResponseHolder requestResponseHolder);

void saveContext(SecurityContext context, HttpServletRequest request,
		HttpServletResponse response);
}

The HttpRequestResponseHolder is simply a container for the incoming request and response objects, allowing the implementation to replace these with wrapper classes. The returned contents will be passed to the filter chain.

The default implementation is HttpSessionSecurityContextRepository, which stores the security context as an HttpSession attribute [12]. The most important configuration parameter for this implementation is the allowSessionCreation property, which defaults to true, thus allowing the class to create a session if it needs one to store the security context for an authenticated user (it won’t create one unless authentication has taken place and the contents of the security context have changed). If you don’t want a session to be created, then you can set this property to false:
<bean id="securityContextPersistenceFilter"
	class="org.springframework.security.web.context.SecurityContextPersistenceFilter">
<property name='securityContextRepository'>
	<bean class='org.springframework.security.web.context.HttpSessionSecurityContextRepository'>
	<property name='allowSessionCreation' value='false' />
	</bean>
</property>
</bean>

Alternatively you could provide an instance of NullSecurityContextRepository, a null object implementation, which will prevent the security context from being stored, even if a session has already been created during the request.
14.4 UsernamePasswordAuthenticationFilter

We’ve now seen the three main filters which are always present in a Spring Security web configuration. These are also the three which are automatically created by the namespace <http> element and cannot be substituted with alternatives. The only thing that’s missing now is an actual authentication mechanism, something that will allow a user to authenticate. This filter is the most commonly used authentication filter and the one that is most often customized [13]. It also provides the implementation used by the <form-login> element from the namespace. There are three stages required to configure it.
 Configure a LoginUrlAuthenticationEntryPoint with the URL of the login page, just as we did above, and set it on the ExceptionTranslationFilter. 
 Implement the login page (using a JSP or MVC controller). 
 Configure an instance of UsernamePasswordAuthenticationFilter in the application context 
 Add the filter bean to your filter chain proxy (making sure you pay attention to the order). 

The login form simply contains username and password input fields, and posts to the URL that is monitored by the filter (by default this is /login). The basic filter configuration looks something like this:
<bean id="authenticationFilter" class=
"org.springframework.security.web.authentication.UsernamePasswordAuthenticationFilter">
<property name="authenticationManager" ref="authenticationManager"/>
</bean>
14.4.1 Application Flow on Authentication Success and Failure

The filter calls the configured AuthenticationManager to process each authentication request. The destination following a successful authentication or an authentication failure is controlled by the AuthenticationSuccessHandler and AuthenticationFailureHandler strategy interfaces, respectively. The filter has properties which allow you to set these so you can customize the behaviour completely [14]. Some standard implementations are supplied such as SimpleUrlAuthenticationSuccessHandler, SavedRequestAwareAuthenticationSuccessHandler, SimpleUrlAuthenticationFailureHandler and ExceptionMappingAuthenticationFailureHandler. Have a look at the Javadoc for these classes and also for AbstractAuthenticationProcessingFilter to get an overview of how they work and the supported features.

If authentication is successful, the resulting Authentication object will be placed into the SecurityContextHolder. The configured AuthenticationSuccessHandler will then be called to either redirect or forward the user to the appropriate destination. By default a SavedRequestAwareAuthenticationSuccessHandler is used, which means that the user will be redirected to the original destination they requested before they were asked to login.	Note

The ExceptionTranslationFilter caches the original request a user makes. When the user authenticates, the request handler makes use of this cached request to obtain the original URL and redirect to it. The original request is then rebuilt and used as an alternative.


If authentication fails, the configured AuthenticationFailureHandler will be invoked.


[11] We use a forward so that the SecurityContextHolder still contains details of the principal, which may be useful for displaying to the user. In old releases of Spring Security we relied upon the servlet container to handle a 403 error message, which lacked this useful contextual information.

[12] In Spring Security 2.0 and earlier, this filter was called HttpSessionContextIntegrationFilter and performed all the work of storing the context was performed by the filter itself. If you were familiar with this class, then most of the configuration options which were available can now be found on HttpSessionSecurityContextRepository.

[13] For historical reasons, prior to Spring Security 3.0, this filter was called AuthenticationProcessingFilter and the entry point was called AuthenticationProcessingFilterEntryPoint. Since the framework now supports many different forms of authentication, they have both been given more specific names in 3.0.

[14] In versions prior to 3.0, the application flow at this point had evolved to a stage was controlled by a mix of properties on this class and strategy plugins. The decision was made for 3.0 to refactor the code to make these two strategies entirely responsible.