### 10.1 AuthenticationManager, ProviderManager 与 AuthenticationProvider

AuthenticationManager只是一个接口，其实现可以是任何我们需要的类，但它是如何工作的嘞？如果我们想要检查多个认证数据库或者一个不同的认证服务的联合，例如一个数据库或者一个LDAP服务，那么我们应该怎样做？

默认的Spring Security的实现叫做`ProviderManager`，它并不自己操作认证请求，而是通过一系列配置的`AuthenticationProvider`s，它们被轮训来处理认证。每个provider要么抛出一个异常，要么返回一个完整的`Authentication`对象。还记得我们的小伙伴`UserDetails`还有`UserDetailsService`吗？如果不记得那你得回去看看前面的章节。校验认证请求的最通用的办法是去读取相应的`UserDetails`，然后检查用户输入的密码。你可以通过`DaoAuthenticationProvider`来做到这点（参见下文）。被装载的`UserDetails`对象 - 还有它包含的对应的`GrantedAuthority`s对象们 - 会被用来构建一个完整的`Authentication`对象，此对象会由一个成功的认证返回，并被存储到`SecurityContext`中。



If you are using the namespace, an instance of ProviderManager is created and maintained internally, and you add providers to it by using the namespace authentication provider elements (see the namespace chapter). In this case, you should not declare a ProviderManager bean in your application context. However, if you are not using the namespace then you would declare it like so:

<bean id="authenticationManager"
		class="org.springframework.security.authentication.ProviderManager">
	<constructor-arg>
		<list>
			<ref local="daoAuthenticationProvider"/>
			<ref local="anonymousAuthenticationProvider"/>
			<ref local="ldapAuthenticationProvider"/>
		</list>
	</constructor-arg>
</bean>
In the above example we have three providers. They are tried in the order shown (which is implied by the use of a List), with each provider able to attempt authentication, or skip authentication by simply returning null. If all implementations return null, the ProviderManager will throw a ProviderNotFoundException. If you’re interested in learning more about chaining providers, please refer to the ProviderManager Javadoc.

Authentication mechanisms such as a web form-login processing filter are injected with a reference to the ProviderManager and will call it to handle their authentication requests. The providers you require will sometimes be interchangeable with the authentication mechanisms, while at other times they will depend on a specific authentication mechanism. For example, DaoAuthenticationProvider and LdapAuthenticationProvider are compatible with any mechanism which submits a simple username/password authentication request and so will work with form-based logins or HTTP Basic authentication. On the other hand, some authentication mechanisms create an authentication request object which can only be interpreted by a single type of AuthenticationProvider. An example of this would be JA-SIG CAS, which uses the notion of a service ticket and so can therefore only be authenticated by a CasAuthenticationProvider. You needn’t be too concerned about this, because if you forget to register a suitable provider, you’ll simply receive a ProviderNotFoundException when an attempt to authenticate is made.

10.1.1 Erasing Credentials on Successful Authentication

By default (from Spring Security 3.1 onwards) the ProviderManager will attempt to clear any sensitive credentials information from the Authentication object which is returned by a successful authentication request. This prevents information like passwords being retained longer than necessary.

This may cause issues when you are using a cache of user objects, for example, to improve performance in a stateless application. If the Authentication contains a reference to an object in the cache (such as a UserDetails instance) and this has its credentials removed, then it will no longer be possible to authenticate against the cached value. You need to take this into account if you are using a cache. An obvious solution is to make a copy of the object first, either in the cache implementation or in the AuthenticationProvider which creates the returned Authentication object. Alternatively, you can disable the eraseCredentialsAfterAuthentication property on ProviderManager. See the Javadoc for more information.

10.1.2 DaoAuthenticationProvider

The simplest AuthenticationProvider implemented by Spring Security is DaoAuthenticationProvider, which is also one of the earliest supported by the framework. It leverages a UserDetailsService (as a DAO) in order to lookup the username, password and GrantedAuthority s. It authenticates the user simply by comparing the password submitted in a UsernamePasswordAuthenticationToken against the one loaded by the UserDetailsService. Configuring the provider is quite simple:

<bean id="daoAuthenticationProvider"
	class="org.springframework.security.authentication.dao.DaoAuthenticationProvider">
<property name="userDetailsService" ref="inMemoryDaoImpl"/>
<property name="passwordEncoder" ref="passwordEncoder"/>
</bean>
The PasswordEncoder is optional. A PasswordEncoder provides encoding and decoding of passwords presented in the UserDetails object that is returned from the configured UserDetailsService. This will be discussed in more detail below.